# ElectricVehicleChargingStation
The main reason why people prefer conventional vehicles rather than electric is because of the unavailability of frequent charging stations. In our country, people are not worried about the environmental hazards which are caused by pollution. They are more likely into the effortless and cheaper mode of transport. The unavailability of charging stations is just one of the significant reasons. Creating a drastic change and stopping the public from using non-emissive vehicles is a huge task that will still require decades of growth. 

So, the challenge is how to make charging easy and hassle-free? 

Looking at the city roads in India, the majority of the streets have street lights. The street light power lines carry 220v, which means that the voltage at home and the street light are the same. That is because the transformer has already stepped it down to 220v, and the lines run in a single phase.

Pitch in Idea? 

The street light poles, let's call it Alpha. We can install a small junction box and place it near the foot of the Alphas. The EVs that run out of charge or on reserve can halt in front of them in the desired manner (not blocking the traffic) and plugin for charging. 

Is charging free?

It isn't free. Every EV will come equipped with a specific configurative charging unit placed inside the vehicle; this means that the vehicles have a suitable configuration that can pair with an Alpha's charging plug point. The power sent out from the Alpha can only be used to charge EVs due to similar configurations. 

How is charging done and payment?

A charging wire will be placed in each vehicle, and an energy meter shall be engaged. As soon as the lines are fixed to the alphas, the current starts to flow, and the charging begins. The entire cycle will be monitored by a digital energy meter, which cannot be altered. The consumer will have his name registered to the specific vehicle, and the per-unit cost would be sent to him, upon which he must pay along with his home electricity bill. 

 Safety?

 It is very similar to charging the vehicle at home. The houses' voltage is also limited to 220v, and hence there will not be a safety concern. Only when the Port and plug are paired, and the vehicle identifies a trust, electricity flow begins. The vehicle thoroughly monitors all the information and is directly linked to the government.

 Possibility? 

The addition of ports from the street lamp at a small desired temporary parking space is all that is needed. The project could be put into action with the installation of wider roads and less moving traffic zones. A simple requirement that can be fulfilled will help consumers to charge on the go. 
